Revise 0298-Processing of unknown enum values by SDL Core (#1006)
smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution: proposals/0298-Processing-of-unknown-enum-values-by-SDL-and-Mobile-libraries.md

  # Processing of unknown enum values by SDL Core

>   * Proposal: [SDL-0298](0298-Processing-of-unknown-enum-values-by-SDLCore.md)

Author: Updated in 3e4835a64afd1b1977009b77d4907a68f37120ee

  * Authors: [Igor Gapchuk](https://github.com/IGapchuk), [Dmitriy Boltovskiy](https://github.com/dboltovskyi/)
  * Status: **Returned for Revisions**
  * Impacted Platforms: [Core]

## Introduction
The main purpose of this proposal is to gracefully handle unknown enum values from a mobile RPC request with any given SDL Core version. This can be achieved by improving the way SDL Core processes and validates unknown enum values.

## Motivation

> The current filtering and data validation mechanism used by SDL Core needs be improved upon to issues related to possible differences in API versions between parameters in the request from a mobile application and an SDL Core.

Author: Updated in 3e4835a64afd1b1977009b77d4907a68f37120ee

To better understand what kinds of issues we could face, let's assume the next example:

> A mobile device with a newer version of the API (5.0) during connecting to the SDL Core, which has an older API version (4.3), sends a `RegisterAppInterface` request to SDL Core with an array of `AppHMITypes` which has the next values: `[DEFAULT, REMOTE_CONTROL]` (The `AppHMIType::DEFAULT` was introduced in the API since 2.0 version, since the time the `AppHMIType` type was added into the API, and `AppHMIType::REMOTE_CONTROL` was introduced in the 4.5 version of the API). SDL Core tries to validate the parameters in the RAI request, finds an unknown enum value of `AppHMIType::REMOTE_CONTROL`. As a result, the SDL Core sends a failure response to a mobile application with the `INVALID_DATA` result code. Thus, the mobile application fails to register with SDL Core that is an unacceptable user experience. Besides, the mobile application cannot conclusively determine the cause of failure since `INVALID_DATA` can be returned for a line of reasons.

Author: Updated in 3e4835a64afd1b1977009b77d4907a68f37120ee

> With the changes provided by this proposal, SDL Core will be able to process all unknown enums in mobile requests in the correct way and respond to mobile applications with informative messages about happed failures.

Author: Updated in 3e4835a64afd1b1977009b77d4907a68f37120ee

  4. A parameter is a part of the structure which is a part of an array (see example 4).

      SDL Core has to process it the same way as in case #3 and remove the structure as an item of the array.
      Once all the parameters are processed SDL Core has to proceed with the request as usual.

  If at least one value of at least one parameter was cut off, SDL Core has to update the response to the mobile application as follows:

  1. If the response was processed successfully, SDL Core has to provide the `WARNINGS` result code instead of `SUCCESS`.
  2. SDL Core has to provide removed enum items in the `info` string of the response.

      Since there could be more than one parameter with cut-off value, `info` message can be constructed the following way:

      `Invalid enums were removed: <param_1>:<enum_value_1>,<enum_value_2>;<param_2>:<enum_value_3> ...`

      If the `info` parameter contains other value(s) belonging to the original processing result SDL Core has to append information about cut-off enum value(s) to the existing value.

  **Examples:**

  In each example below the mobile application sends a request to SDL Core.

  **NOTE**

>   To determine the API version for choosing if a parameter is mandatory should be used the negotiated API version.

Author: Updated in 3e4835a64afd1b1977009b77d4907a68f37120ee

>   To determine the API version for choosing if a parameter is mandatory should be used the negotiated API version.

Reviewer: It looks like I included backticks in my suggested change by accident, my apologies.  Please remove this formatting.

>   To determine the API version for choosing if a parameter is mandatory should be used the negotiated API version.

Author: Revert in the d6237ab6950dbfa746a9a4f87060873b746a5dd3

>   In the case when Mobile Application has the 7.0 API version and the SDL Core has the 6.0 API version, the negotiated API version will be 6.0 (the version of the SDL Core).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In the case when Mobile Application has the 7.0 Mobile API/RPC spec version and the SDL Core has the 6.0 Mobile API/RPC spec version, the negotiated version will be 6.0 (the version of the SDL Core).
```

Author: Updated in 3e4835a64afd1b1977009b77d4907a68f37120ee

>   In the case when Mobile Application has the 6.0 API version and the SDL Core has the 7.0 API version, the negotiated API version will be 6.0 (the version of the Mobile Application).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In the case when Mobile Application has the 6.0 Mobile API/RPC spec version and the SDL Core has the 7.0 Mobile API/RPC spec version, the negotiated version will be 6.0 (the version of the Mobile Application).
```

Author: Updated in 3e4835a64afd1b1977009b77d4907a68f37120ee

>   Negotiated API version is the version that should be used for determining if a parameter is mandatory or not, as mandatory=true/false can change between different APIs versions

Reviewer: I believe this can be removed, as it's already included in line 67.

Author: Removed in 3e4835a64afd1b1977009b77d4907a68f37120ee

      The request is successfully processed with the remaining button `2` and the following response is  provided to mobile application:
      `success=true, resultCode = "WARNINGS", info="Invalid enums were removed: softButtons[1].type:UNKNOWN"`

## Potential downsides

> There is the case when a Mobile Application has the older API version (for example 6.0) then SDL Core and the SDL Core has the newer API version (for example 7.0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is the case when a Mobile Application has an older Mobile API version (for example 6.0) than SDL Core and SDL Core has the newer Mobile API version (for example 7.0).
```

Author: Updated in 3e4835a64afd1b1977009b77d4907a68f37120ee

> In the Mobile Application, some parameter is not mandatory and in the SDL Core, the same parameter is become as mandatory. Should keep in mind that the implementation of the SDL Core is updated according to the last API version. And in the described case if the Mobile Application will not send the parameter, that could bring the SDL Core to the incorrect behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Mobile Application, some parameters are not mandatory and in SDL Core, the same parameter has become mandatory. One should keep in mind that the implementation of SDL Core is updated according to the last Mobile API version. And in the described case, if the Mobile Application will not send the parameter, that could bring SDL Core to the incorrect behavior.
```

Author: Updated in 3e4835a64afd1b1977009b77d4907a68f37120ee
